README.md, before:

# Docker CLI Workspace

You can use this container to use commonly used cli tools without installing them in your machine

useful for:

* ensuring a consistent workflow across all team that is using different OS (Mac, Linux, Windows etc)
* quickly install all the tools you need by executing a single command (all you need is to have the docker engine installed)
* fetch the dependencies of an app you are working on. 

Demo

![alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/buonzz/cli-workspace/master/demo.gif)


## Softwares Installed

* Node 9.3.0 (npm v5.5.1)
* Yarn 1.12.1
* PHP CLI 7.2 (with common, curl, intl, json, xml, mbstring, mysql, pgsql, sqlite, sqlite3, zip, bcmath, memcached, gd extensions)
* Composer 1.6.3
* Python 2.7
* Bower 1.8.4
* Gulp 3.9.1
* MySQL Client 14.14
* Git 2.7.4
* Curl
* vim
* nano
* Java 1.8.0_191
* Ruby 2.5.1p57


## Usage

pull and run the container
```
docker run -it buonzz/workspace /bin/bash
```

this will fetch the image, run the container, and log you inside the container -- now all the tools is available in front of you by just executing that simple command

NOTE: for Windows users, you might need to prepend "winpty" on each of these commands.

```
winpty docker run -it buonzz/workspace bash
```

### You can use the container without logging in.

the following commands  will mount your current working directory ($(pwd)) to a path inside the container (/var/www), then executes the commands passed in bash command. The effect is, the bash commands is being executed as if you are executing it in your host machine.

**Fetch composer dependencies**

in any folder on which you have composer.json file, just execute the following:

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash -c "composer install --no-interaction"
```

this will run the workspace, and execute composer install command inside. The resulting vendor folder is generated in the current folder.

**install or update a composer package**


```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash -c "composer update elasticsearch/elasticsearch"
```
or

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash -c "composer update elasticsearch/elasticsearch"
```


**Fetch npm packages (using npm)**

in any folder on which you have package.json file, just execute the following:

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "npm install"
```

**Fetch npm packages (using yarn)**

in any folder on which you have package.json file, just execute the following:

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www --user=laradock buonzz/workspace bash --login -c "yarn install"
```

**run python command**

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "python -c \"for r in range(10): print 'hello'\""
```

**Bower**
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "bower --version"
```

**Gulp**
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "gulp --version"
```

**run mysql commands**
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "mysql -u root -psecret -h put_hostname_here -e \"SELECT * FROM users\" > users.sql"
```
this will connect to the put_hostname_here mysql server, execute the sql query and dump the result to the current directory in the host.

**Java**
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash -c "java -version"
```

**Ruby**

```
docker run buonzz/workspace bash -c "ruby -v"
```

### Accessing private repos

if you need to have a private repo accessed from within the container, generate ssh keys first, and then place them as in this repo as:

* insecure_id_rsa
* insecure_id_rsa.pub

then rebuild the container. The keys will be copied over to the image and will be used every time a container is created.


### Rebuilding the image

just hit

```
./build.sh
```


### Credits

this project is an evolution of the https://github.com/laradock/workspace from Laradock.

Commit message:

added note for running gitbash + windows

README.md, after:

# Docker CLI Workspace

You can use this container to use commonly used cli tools without installing them in your machine

useful for:

* ensuring a consistent workflow across all team that is using different OS (Mac, Linux, Windows etc)
* quickly install all the tools you need by executing a single command (all you need is to have the docker engine installed)
* fetch the dependencies of an app you are working on. 

Demo

![alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/buonzz/cli-workspace/master/demo.gif)


## Softwares Installed

* Node 9.3.0 (npm v5.5.1)
* Yarn 1.12.1
* PHP CLI 7.2 (with common, curl, intl, json, xml, mbstring, mysql, pgsql, sqlite, sqlite3, zip, bcmath, memcached, gd extensions)
* Composer 1.6.3
* Python 2.7
* Bower 1.8.4
* Gulp 3.9.1
* MySQL Client 14.14
* Git 2.7.4
* Curl
* vim
* nano
* Java 1.8.0_191
* Ruby 2.5.1p57


## Usage

pull and run the container
```
docker run -it buonzz/workspace /bin/bash
```

this will fetch the image, run the container, and log you inside the container -- now all the tools is available in front of you by just executing that simple command

NOTE: for Windows users, you might need to prepend "winpty" on each of these commands.

```
winpty docker run -it buonzz/workspace bash
```

### You can use the container without logging in.

the following commands  will mount your current working directory ($(pwd)) to a path inside the container (/var/www), then executes the commands passed in bash command. The effect is, the bash commands is being executed as if you are executing it in your host machine.

NOTE: for Windows users using Git bash, you should replace the **$(pwd)** with  **/${PWD}**

**Fetch composer dependencies**

in any folder on which you have composer.json file, just execute the following:

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash -c "composer install --no-interaction"
```

this will run the workspace, and execute composer install command inside. The resulting vendor folder is generated in the current folder.

**install or update a composer package**


```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash -c "composer update elasticsearch/elasticsearch"
```
or

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash -c "composer update elasticsearch/elasticsearch"
```


**Fetch npm packages (using npm)**

in any folder on which you have package.json file, just execute the following:

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "npm install"
```

**Fetch npm packages (using yarn)**

in any folder on which you have package.json file, just execute the following:

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www --user=laradock buonzz/workspace bash --login -c "yarn install"
```

**run python command**

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "python -c \"for r in range(10): print 'hello'\""
```

**Bower**
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "bower --version"
```

**Gulp**
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "gulp --version"
```

**run mysql commands**
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash  -c "mysql -u root -psecret -h put_hostname_here -e \"SELECT * FROM users\" > users.sql"
```
this will connect to the put_hostname_here mysql server, execute the sql query and dump the result to the current directory in the host.

**Java**
```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash -c "java -version"
```

**Ruby**

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/var/www buonzz/workspace bash -c "ruby -v"
```


### Accessing private repos

if you need to have a private repo accessed from within the container, generate ssh keys first, and then place them as in this repo as:

* insecure_id_rsa
* insecure_id_rsa.pub

then rebuild the container. The keys will be copied over to the image and will be used every time a container is created.


### Rebuilding the image

just hit

```
./build.sh
```


### Credits

this project is an evolution of the https://github.com/laradock/workspace from Laradock.
